[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Have you ever been handed
a pamphlet for a medication
that's supposed to help you?
It's supposed to do
really great things.
Then you turn it over, and
there are the side effects.
I will never forget the moment--
I am 26 years old,
just a baby, sitting
in my orthopedics' office
reading those side effects.
After 20 years of intense
competitive gymnastics,
I found myself no longer able to
do most of the things I loved--
hiking, biking, yoga,
sleep, all off the table.
At this point, even though I
had become a successful coach,
and I was empowering
others to find their health
and well-being, I struggled
most of my life with my health.
It started at nine with
unidentifiable gut issues,
and then it just snowballed
downhill from there--
PCOS, anorexia, bulimia,
anxiety, depression,
chronic fatigue, chronic
pain, migraines, brain fog,
you name it.
It was a wonder I
was even functioning.
I woke up at 23 years
old, 75 pounds overweight,
even though I was a
competitive athlete,
training for at
least two hours a day
and eating all the
supposed right things.
So how did I get there?
By the time this final
wake-up call came,
I had already tried it all--
the saunas, the deep
detoxes, the cold plunges,
the fancy supplements.
I had exhausted what I
thought was every resource.
I had some successes.
I definitely overcame
some chronic issues.
But there I sat,
at 26 years old,
listening to my orthopedic tell
me that you should just never
run again.
How had I worked so hard
doing all the right things,
to find myself in that position?
Would I ever get past the
dysfunction and the pain?
Maybe some of you can
identify with this.
You've struggled with
endless health issues.
You've exhausted
all your resources.
You take a couple steps
forward to eventually fall
backwards again.
I left the office that day,
devastated and hopeless.
After crying my eyes out
and processing my upset,
I found myself exhausted
and completely empty.
And in that emptiness,
I knew those toxic side
effects were not for me.
I knew deep down,
there had to be a way
to reactivate my original
blueprint of health
and well-being.
We all have one.
Mine had to be in
there somewhere.
So I gathered up my
courage once again,
and I went forward determined
to find a solution.
After a few more years of
searching, experimenting--
yes, I am a walking experiment,
just as many of you might be--
and living in a completely
dysfunctional body,
I was introduced to
the world of fascia
and the nervous system, what
I like to call the roots.
After many years of
trying to describe fascia,
I like to compare it
to the roots of a tree.
The roots run really deep.
They permeate anything
and everything
that stands in their way.
They are not uniform.
They provide nourishment,
stability, and communication.
They are part of an innate
primal warning system when
there is an imminent threat.
Without the roots, a tree
couldn't survive, let alone
stand.
Similarly, without
our fascial matrix,
our bodies simply
would not work.
Our incredible bodies have 78
organs, 206 bones, 600 muscles,
60,000 miles of blood vessels,
and trillions of nerves.
Fascia is the system
of all these systems
that allows everything
to communicate and work
together so that we can actually
function as a whole living
organism.
It is the master operating
system of our bodies.
Fascia is wrapped
around, embedded
into and throughout every
single tissue in our body,
including the blood vessels,
including the nerves,
including the organs, all
the way down to the tiny cell
itself.
Fascia has no beginning
or end in the system.
It's like a figure eight
running throughout your body.
It is the very
first tissue to form
when we are in
utero, which is part
of the reason it is
so intimately linked
with our nervous system.
Fascia holds our
memories and influences
like snapshots, which makes it a
blueprint of where we came from
and everything that's
happened along the way.
Yes, our body does keep
score, and it does so
via the fascial tissue.
Now, you might be wondering,
why does this matter.
When it comes to balancing
my hormones, building muscle,
or whatever goal you
might have for yourself.
Well, the fascial matrix
has three primary functions.
Number one, it is a high-speed
communication network.
So imagine the internet
running throughout your body,
allowing all those cells and
pieces and parts to communicate.
Number two, which is very
little known to a lot of people,
it is a fluid delivery system.
We are 90% fluid.
Fascia functions like a
pump, pumping this fluid
throughout our system.
It delivers essential
substances to cells,
so that the cells can
do what the cells know
how to do, while removing that
cellular waste at the same time.
Number three, maybe
its simplest activity,
is that it gives us
structure, form, and support.
If we didn't have fascia,
we couldn't stand.
We couldn't move.
We would literally be limp
sacks of tissue and bone.
Now, the most important
thing that I'm here
to talk about today
is the intimate link
between the fascial system
and the nervous system.
Combined, these two systems
impact every single function
in your body, meaning
whatever is going on
in your nervous system is
being directly communicated
to every single cell in your
body via the fascial tissue.
And on the other side of
it, whatever is impacting
your fascial tissue is
impacting your nervous system
and its ability to
regulate itself.
So no matter what
your goal might be,
every health journey
begins with learning
to understand and nourish
the fascial nervous system.
Now, as I began to learn about
fascia and the many impactors
that impact its performance
and how it operates,
I quickly learned what
my main impactors were.
You see repetitive movements,
poor posture, injuries,
surgeries, create something
in the fascial tissue
called adhesions.
So imagine that those
roots of the tree
are so entangled and tight
that the information can't get
through in either direction.
So when we have these adhesions
in the fascial tissue throughout
our system, the area around
that adhesion-- the cells,
the tissues--
cannot function
optimally, if at all.
So it was no coincidence
that I struggled
with liver and gallbladder
issues most of my life.
And I had also broken my ribs
multiple times on my right side.
There was also no coincidence
that I struggled with my thyroid
most of my life.
And I have had countless
whiplashes, concussions,
and neck injuries.
My gymnastics career had
impacted my fascial system
so deeply at a visceral
organ level that I couldn't
get beyond my
challenges, no matter
how many deep detoxes I did or
fancy supplements I threw down
my throat.
And there were a lot.
Now, my biggest impactor of all
that was totally under my radar
was my chronic stress response.
You see, I grew up thinking that
being hypervigilant and anxious
all the time just meant that
I was really productive.
The sad thing was that I grew
up in an abusive, toxic, unsafe
environment.
My body never knew
rest and digest.
I grew up running from a tiger.
So as I got older, this
chronic stress response
was undermining every attempt
I made to be healthy and whole.
The scariest part about
this was that I didn't even
know I was in fight or flight.
I had completely normalized
this way of being, just as many
of you might be doing right now.
In today's stress-filled
modern world,
this stress pandemic
has become so insidious
that we have completely
normalized a way of being
that is completely abnormal.
Now, the issue with this
normalization is that our body
cannot regulate itself.
It cannot heal and repair
when we are in a chronic state
of fight or flight.
Survival mode means
exactly that--
survive, not thrive.
So I invite you to learn
to nourish your roots.
With the information we have
about our fascial system
and how it impacts every cell,
every tissue in our body,
especially when combined
with our nervous system,
we now have a proactive
and responsive way
of treating the cause
rather than to continue
to chase those symptoms.
Learn to care for your fascial
matrix and your nervous system
and take control of your health
and well-being once and for all.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]